Allow restricted coins to be quarantined (#1652)
provenance-io/provenance: x/marker/spec/12_transfers.md

# Transfers

There are some complex interactions involved with transfers of restricted coins.

<!-- TOC -->
  - [General](#general)
  - [Definitions](#definitions)
    - [Transfer Permission](#transfer-permission)
    - [Required Attributes](#required-attributes)
    - [Individuality](#individuality)
    - [Deposits](#deposits)
    - [Bypass Accounts](#bypass-accounts)
  - [Send Restrictions](#send-restrictions)
    - [Flowcharts](#flowcharts)
    - [Quarantine Complexities](#quarantine-complexities)

## General

Accounting of restricted coins is handled by the bank module. Restricted funds can be moved using the bank module's `MsgSend` or `MsgMutliSend`. They can also be moved using the marker module's `MsgTransferRequest`.

During such transfers several things are checked using a `SendRestrictionFn` injected into the bank module. This restriction is applied in almost all instances when funds are being moved between accounts. The exceptions are delegations, undelegations, minting, burning, and marker withdrawals.

<!-- TODO: Add notes about IBC movement too -->

## Definitions

### Transfer Permission

> One permission that can be granted to an address is `transfer`. An address with `transfer` permission can utilize `MsgTransferRequest` to move restricted funds from one account to another. If the marker allows forced transfer, the source account can be any account, otherwise, it must be the admin's own account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One permission that can be granted to an address is `transfer`.  The `transfer` permission is granted to accounts that represent a "Transfer Agent" or "Transfer Authority" for restricted marker tokens. An address with `transfer` permission can utilize `MsgTransferRequest` to move restricted funds from one account to another. This authority can be granted (see `authz`) to another address allowing them to use the `MsgTransferRequest` endpoint.

An additional transfer capability is the "Forced Transfer" permission.  This permission changes the nature of the token itself such that accounts no longer fully self-custody the marker token. The Transfer Agent on a "Forced Tranfer" marker has the ability to move the funds from one account to another unilaterally.  Note that the source account must be a "standard signing account".  Smart contracts or other module and protocol controlled accounts are not valid sources to force transfers from.
```

Author: I left off the
> This authority can be granted (see `authz`) to another address allowing them to use the `MsgTransferRequest` endpoint.

It's not really the authority that's being granted with `authz`, just the ability to use a `MsgTransferRequest`. That's just normal `authz` operation, though, so I'm not sure it needs to be called out. You can't use `authz`, though, to convey transfer permission in a way that `MsgSend` could be used. There could also be some confusion with the `MarkerTransferAuthorization` which is issued by someone with some restricted coins, but without transfer permission to someone with transfer permission. But that's discussed in `11_authorization.md`.

`MsgSend` and `MsgMultiSend` can also be used by an address with `transfer` permission to move funds out of their own account.

### Required Attributes

> Required attributes are something that can be configured for a restricted marker. Accounts with the required attributes are allowed to receive those marker's coins regardless of whether the sender has `transfer` authority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Required attributes allow a marker Transfer Authority to define a set of account attestations created with the name/attribute modules to certify an account as an approved holder of the token.  Accounts that possess all of the required attributes are considered authorized by the Transfer Authority to receive the token from normal bank send operations without a specific Transfer Authority approval.

Note: Required attributes control restricted transfers and are only supported on restricted markers.
```

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'monotoneY'} } }%%
flowchart LR
    vsd[["validateSendDenom(Sender, Receiver, Denom)"]]
    mreqattr{{"Does Denom have\nrequired attributes?"}}
    treqattr{{"Does Receiver have\nthose attributes?"}}
    ok(["Denom transfer allowed."])
    style ok fill:#bbffaa,stroke:#1b8500,stroke-width:3px
    denied(["Send denied."])
    style denied fill:#ffaaaa,stroke:#b30000,stroke-width:3px
    mreqattr -->|yes| treqattr
    mreqattr -.->|no| ok
    treqattr -->|yes| ok
    treqattr -.->|no| denied

    linkStyle 3 stroke:#b30000,color:#b30000
    linkStyle 1,2 stroke:#1b8500,color:#1b8500

```

If the `Send` is allowed, the requested funds are transferred from `QFH` to `Receiver`.

If the `Send` is denied, the funds remain with `QFH`.

An important subtle part of this process is the rechecking of `Receiver` attributes. It's possible for the initial send to be okay (causing funds to be quarantined), then later, during this `Accept`, the send is not okay, and the quarantined funds are effectively locked with`QFH` until the `Receiver` gets the required attributes.

> If the marker does not have required attributes though, it's assumed that they were originally sent by someone with transfer authority, so they are allowed to continue to from here too.

Author: I fixed the first paragraph, but left off the note.

Removing funds from the `QFH` account without updating quarantine records will break an invariant.

`authz` cannot be used like that to move funds out of the `QFH`. The only way funds can leave the `QFH` is through the quarantine `Accept` endpoint. Even if `authz` is used to allow a third party to call `Accept`, the marker restrictions only know about the source account (`QFH`) and the destination (the `toAddr`).

Funds can become stuck in the `QFH` if there are required attributes but the `toAddr` doesn't have them. The only workarounds would be to give the `toAddr` the required attributes or grant `QFH` transfer permission. The latter is probably a very bad idea.

If these stuck funds become a problem, we could either add some functionality to `MsgTransferRequest` or create a new `Rescue` endpoint somewhere. Either way, quarantine records need to be updated as when the funds are moved out of `QFH`.

> If the marker does not have required attributes though, it's assumed that they were originally sent by someone with transfer authority, so they are allowed to continue to from here too.

Reviewer: This brings up a good point… at the moment the authz is for the msgtransfer endpoint, but we also have attribute checks on acceptance and potentially disabled ability on source to send without a corresponding ability to express these rights in authz.  That ability would be needed here for the above as the intent wasn’t to move the funds from the quarantine unilaterally but instead to satisfy the recipient eligibility criteria.

> If the marker does not have required attributes though, it's assumed that they were originally sent by someone with transfer authority, so they are allowed to continue to from here too.

Author: The required attributes and deny-list checks are specific to the account receiving funds and account the funds are coming out of (respectively). The former can be bypassed using the transfer permission. The latter is only bypassable by using the `MsgTransferRequest` endpoint, though I wonder if even that shouldn't be allowed.

If an account does not have the required attributes, but funds should still be sent to it, there's a few ways to do it:
1. The current holder of the funds is given transfer permission. They can then use any method of sending the funds that they want.
2. The current holder of the funds is conveyed transfer permission through authz using a `GenericAuthorization` on the `MsgTransferRequest` messages. They then submit an authz `Exec` with a `MsgTransferRequest` identifying the granter as the `admin`.
3. The current holder of the funds issues a `MarkerTransferAuthorization` to someone with transfer permission who then sends a `MsgTransferRequest` on their behalf.

The deny list check isn't done during a `MsgTransferRequest`. It's only applied when the `Send` is initiated by other means (e.g. `MsgSend`). That check is done before checking for transfer authority though, so if someone is on the deny list, they only way the funds can move out of their account is through a `MsgTransferRequest`. So option 2 or 3 above would work there too.

All authz does is allow a message to have a different signer from the one contained in the message. Usually, by the time we're processing a message, that checking as already been done and we don't know the actual signer, just the "signer" identified in the msg. During a quarantine `Accept`, the signer is the `toAddr`. However, for an `Accept` to be processed, there must be a record of the quarantined funds to that address, and the funds can only go to that address. There's no way for it to know of another address that might have tried to convey transfer permission in order to allow the `Accept` to go through. During a `MsgSend`, the same is true. There's no way for a third address to be involved conveying transfer permission.

Currently, the only way to get a third address involved like that is through `MsgTransferRequest`. But that can't be used for quarantined funds because `QFH` is a module account (plus, doing so would break an invariant). If we don't mind the marker module having a dependency on the quarantine module, we can add a check in `MsgTransferRequest` to identify when the `from` is `QFH` and properly tell the quarantine module about the fund movement. Otherwise, somewhere, we'd have to create a new `Rescue` endpoint that would provide the ability to get stuck funds out of quarantine, applying the appropriate restrictions and properly updating the quarantine module.

---

Should we be doing the deny-list check during a `MsgTransferRequest`? I feel like we should since transfer permission does not bypass that check during other sends. Or maybe transfer permission should bypass the deny-list check during other sends too. But I feel like the spirit of the deny-list is the same as a hold; i.e. those funds cannot leave the account until they're off the deny list.

> If the marker does not have required attributes though, it's assumed that they were originally sent by someone with transfer authority, so they are allowed to continue to from here too.

Reviewer: No, we should not be restricting `MsgTransferRequest` as it is more correctly `MsgTransfer[Authority]Request` meaning you must be a holder of the `transfer` grant (directly or indirectly) and you have complete authority to perform transfers.  Literally the Transfer Authority sets the rules and can make exceptions to them.

> If the marker does not have required attributes though, it's assumed that they were originally sent by someone with transfer authority, so they are allowed to continue to from here too.

Author: Summarizing an outside conversation in here for the record.

Let's say `chickens` are a restricted coin, and I have a bunch of them. I have transfer permission for them, but am also on the deny list for them.
* If I `MsgSend` from: me, to: you, amount: `5chickens`, it will fail because I'm on the deny list.
* If I `MsgTransferRequest` from: me, to: you, admin: me, amount: 5chickens, it will go through because it doesn't check the deny list.

This is expected behavior because the `MsgTransferRequest` is sort of a `sudo bank send`. Someone with transfer but on the deny list needs to recognize that they're possibly bypassing some restrictions to do their transfer.

> If the marker does not have required attributes though, it's assumed that they were originally sent by someone with transfer authority, so they are allowed to continue to from here too.

Author: As for the issue with funds getting stuck in quarantine, I feel like that would be better handled with a separate issue and PR since there will be some design and implementation decisions to make.

> If the marker does not have required attributes though, it's assumed that they were originally sent by someone with transfer authority, so they are allowed to continue to from here too.

Author: I created #1654 for the stuck-in-quarantine thing.
